# Documentation

The DARIAH-DE status page is generated by [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/).

## The infrastructure and its components

The DARIAH-DE infrastructure is modeled using [Jekyll Collections](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/collections/).
The model describes the infrastructure catalogue using four layers:

1. Services
2. Middlewares
3. Servers
4. Infrastructure

Any item is described by a collection entry with the following metadata preamble.

```yaml
---
title: 'Item Title for display'
description: 'This is a sample entry'
website: 'http://item.url/'
teresah_included: true
dependencies:
  - '/infrastructure/otheritem'
  - '/servers/machine'
---
```

The `title` is required for all entries and used in status messages, for servers this should be the `fqdn`.

The fields `description` and `website` are used for the entries in the list harvested by teresah. The key `teresah_included` defaults to `true` for services, unless explicity set to `false`.

The `dependencies` must be stated using the `id` of the collection entry, i.e. `/:collection/:name` where `:collection` is the name of the collection and `:name` if the filename without extension of the entry.
If a dependency is listed that does not exist, the follwing error occurs:
```
Liquid Exception: Liquid error (line 6): divided by 0 in fulllist.md
```

Dependency cycles, i.e. circular dependencies, are not allowed[^1].
Cycles in the dependencies will result in the following error:

```
Liquid Exception: Liquid error (line xx): Nesting too deep in fulllist.md
```

[^1]: Limiting recursion depth doesn't help, as than by the current design all services connected to the cycle would be affected by any outage.

The full list of all resolved dependencies can be found [here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link fulllist.md %}).

## Outages and Announcements

All service disruptions and announcements are registered in [Jekyll Data Files](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/datafiles/). 

```yaml
---
- title: 'This is the heading on the status page'
  description: 'This describes what the entry is about.'
  hide: false
  date_start: '2017-10-01 11:01'
  date_end: '2017-10-02 14:38'
  affected:
    - '/infrastructure/otheritem'
    - '/servers/machine'
  affected_services:
    - 'DARIAH Website'
```

Using [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/) processing, all services depending on any (or listed as) item in the `affected` array are shown on the status page.
The items of the `affected` array use the same `id` schema as the infrastructure components dependencies.
In case a nonexisting item is listed, the same division by zero will be caused.

Explicit listing using the `affected_services` is discouraged in favour od dynamic catalogue resolution and it will be ignored if the `affected` array is present.

The field `hide` defaults to `false` if absent, but can be used to hide messages from the status page.
Outages with a set `date_end` will also not be shown on the status page.

## History

For documentation purposes, previous outages and announcements can be added to the [History]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link history.md %}).

Since the catalogue may change, the history can not be generated by dynamically resolving dependencies.
Affected services must therefore be specified using the `affected_services` array.
To facilitate maintenance of the history, resolved outages and announcements (even if hidden) are listed on the [current entries]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link current_entries.md %}) page.

## TERESAH

The DARIAH-DE Status Jekyll page also includes the page with all DARIAH-DE services to be harvested by TERESAH.
This includes all services except those explicitly excluded and all middlewares that are explicitly included, as long they have a `title`, `description` and `website` element.

